MTV-813 - MTV 2.6 Release Notes (#467)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/rn-2.6.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

// {project-short} {project-z-version} is a maintenance release. There are no technical changes.

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

In this version of {project-short}, migration using OpenStack source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.
// 
// .Disabling FIPS
// 

> // EMS enforcement is disabled for migrations with VMware vSphere source providers to enable migrations from versions of vSphere that are supported by {project-short} but do not comply with the 2023 FIPS requirements.

Reviewer: Why are you leaving this section in if it is not needed?

Author: Removed section

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

> The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

Reviewer 2: Can we remove this sentence from this module? This info is more suitable for the Abstract. I can see that, for example, the 2.5 MTV release notes doc has this kind of sentence in the Abstract, which is where it really belongs since it describes what the document contains. What are your thoughts?

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

> This release has the following technical changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part provides technical changes introduced in {project-full} 2.6.
```
Alternatively, "This section provides" or "This section describes", or something similar. WDYT?

Author: Text remains the same as previous versions

> .Improved migration plan in the console

Reviewer 2: What about some more descriptive title for the RN? Users tend to read only the release note's title, so it's quite important to describe the feature in the title. You can check, for example, some of the RHEL release notes. In this case, we could try something simple, for example, ".Improved process of creating a migration plan in the console" and then describe the feature in more details below. In this case, it should be enough. WDYT?

> The user interface console has improved the process of creating a migration plan.

Reviewer 2: BTW, is there some more info on why it's a benefit to the user? Like, for example, what exactly improved in the process of creating a plan compared to the previous process?

> The user interface of create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.

Reviewer: https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-documentation/pull/467#discussion_r1510004005
```suggestion
The user interface of the create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays current data.
```

.`instance type` and `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates

> The `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. When a relevant preference is not available, {project-short} uses {ocp-name} templates.
```

> Customer Virtual Machine Mapping are custom templates that you can configure for specific migrations, VMs, and users.

Reviewer 2: This sentence seems to be a little out of place - it feels like it's not connected to the rest of the text. Can we somehow connect it to the text above?

.Full support for migration from OVA

> {project-short} supports migration from OVA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{project-short} now supports migration from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).
```

.Integration of the `Create` and `Edit` migration plans

> The user interface `Create` and `Edit` elements for migration plans now align with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data. These elements now replace Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user interface `Create` and `Edit` elements for migration plans now align with the design of the {ocp} web console and display up-to-date data. These elements replace Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]
```

Is it ok to replace "look and feel" with "design"?

Reviewer: Defo

> .VM posted with `Running` state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The VM  `Running` state is now displayed during the migration
```
What about making the title more descriptive? WDYT about the suggestion?

> .`VirtualMachineClusterFlavor`and `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

Reviewer: Misformatting
```suggestion
.The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor`and `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates
```

![image](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-documentation/assets/106804821/98c6417c-ba82-4cba-a9e1-0eb6d2c231d0)

Author: section removed

> Virtual Machine Flavor API will replace OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer: * If you put this in codeblocks in the title then it has to be in codeblocks here
* There should be an article in front of `Virtual Machine Flavor API`. 
* `will replace` suggests this change is not implemented

```suggestion
The `Virtual Machine Flavor` API replaces OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.
```

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. This single `Ronning` operation replaces two previous operations, `Create/Post VM` and Run VM`.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

> .Can download `must-gather` logs only using the CLI
> 
> The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. Every `must-gather` log image download must be preformed using CLI commands. See link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The `must-gather` logs can now be downloaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download every `must-gather` log image by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].
```

> Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` have not worked properly when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built for a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace them. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

Reviewer: This looks misformatted.

![image](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-documentation/assets/106804821/0fb2d449-a21f-412a-b61c-fb07f0a2bc95)

```suggestion
Forms and Wizards that use `migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The `migtool` library was built for a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]
```

Author: section replaced

> .Review and configure migrated VMs
> 
> The {project-short} web console shows the name and migration status of each VM. The migrated VMs are labeled `app: <vmname>` to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Migrated VMs can now be reviewed and configured

The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the the `app: <vmname>` lable to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]
```
Attempted to rewrite the title and description a bit. Not sure it it makes sense from the technical POV, though... As for the title, IIUC, it's now possible to somehow review and configure the migrated VMs, but the description doesn't provide details about reviewing or configuring, making the title and description kind of unlinked.... Is there, for example, some doc that describes these processes in more details? It would be great to provide a link, is such exists. Or, alternatively, add some minor details to the description so that the user understands what we're talking about.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

> This release has the following features and improvements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part provides new features and enhancements introduces in {project-full} 2.6.
```

Not sure about mentioning the version explicitly as per the comment from @anarnold97. Andy, it it ok this way? I suggested the same phrasing for the previous section, but now that I'm reading your comment, I'm not sure anymore :-D Does this release notes doc  include only the changes from 2.6? Anyway, I think, it's possible to explicitly mention, which minor release the note belongs to, if needed. We use a similar approach for the Considerations in adopting RHEL doc (which is very similar to Release Notes). For example, the doc can be named "Considerations in adopting RHEL 9", and then if some feature is introduced with a minor release, for example, with 9.3, we just mention it in the release note's description. Let me know your thoughts, please :-)

Reviewer: These release notes will include all further 2.6.z releases

So your change works nicely

> Files held directly on the NFS share are scanned, not requiring a folder. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

Reviewer: Please can you re-write this as this does not read well as I am unsure what `not requiring a folder`

Author: changed

> .Validation for RHEL 6

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Validation for RHEL 6 is now available 
```

I'd also add where it's available :-D For example, "is available for OpenShift Virtualization", but I don't know if it's technically correct. Please, correct me if I'm wrong.

> // {project-short} {project-z-version} is a maitenance release. There are no new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Keep your work tidy

> Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system, and therefore RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. A validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]
```

Can we also add some details here? Something about what benefits this validation brings, for example.

Reviewer: @HagayVider1 - please speak to Arik or Richard and ask for use-cases and benefits as we discussed last week?

> .Block migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13

Reviewer 2: The title is not descriptive enough. Is there a way to make it more specific (or maybe just rephrase it a bit to make it more new-feature-like)? For example,  ".Migrations from OpenShift versions earlier than 4.13 are now blocked"

Let me know your thoughts :-)

Author: Changed
Query sent to Arik

> The `Export API` in {ocp-name} Virtualization exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13, so source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes virtual machine (VM) manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]
```

What is `Export API`? Is it a function? It's better to define. Correct my suggestion, if I'm wrong :)

Author: Changed
Sent query to Arik

> .Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically

Author: changed

> Source network and source storage are not selected automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Source network and source storage are now not selected automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]
```

Any more details on this one? For example, what benefit does this feature brings to the user.

Author: changed

> .Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality
> 
> The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. It was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The vSphere Verify certificate functionality is now available

The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]
```

Author: vSphere Verify certificate functionality has been restored
changed

> .{ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.{ocp-name} Console SDK fetch, post, and delete calls are now available 
```
Not sure if it's enough for this title to just say "available", though...

> The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]
```
Any more details that the user would benefit from?

Author: Query sent to Arik

> // 
> // ..CNV InstanceTypes
> // 
> // This looks like it repeats MTV-206 above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

> .{project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods
> 
> The UI plugin uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]
```

Any more details? The description just repeats the title, which should not occur, The description must describe the feature in more details.

Author: changed

.RH-SDL

> {project-short} conforms with the Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle (RH-SDL) for users to follow an implementation plan that adopts security controls during the product lifecycle. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-801[(MTV-801)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{project-short} conforms with the Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle (RH-SDL) that allows users to follow an implementation plan that adopts security controls during the product lifecycle. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-801[(MTV-801)]
```

> .Migration success status bar chart 
> 
> A bar chart shows the number of migrations and their status - `starts`, `finished`, and `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Migration success status bar chart is now available

With this update, a migration success status bar chart is available that displays the number of migrations and their status (`starts`, `finished`, or `failed`). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]
```

Author: changed

.Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

> .Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs
> 
> Plans that have failed to migrate any VMs can be edited. Some plans fail or are canceled because the network and storage mappings are wrong. These plans can be edited until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Pans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any virtual machines (VMs). Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit such plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]
```

Author: changed

.ESXi provider host configuration

> ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]
```
Also, can we expand the ESXi abbreviation?

Author: changed

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]

> === OVA Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== The Open Virtual Appliances provider
```

Author: changed

> // Do we have public links to these documents?
> // Additional RH-SDL resources:
> // * link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QMrM5ac2sbecmy7lYHA8S6p8L8ivVwHlgdcspy-Z4VE/edit#heading=h.66y4kqbj468a[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Implementation Plan]
> // * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CnIq-MHgEoq_1QgaFU5uoOfZ7ZOnNzxPk9OdDUe4Me8/edit#slide=id.g1a5a54f838a_0_1509[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Introduction]
> // * Link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19H3tSzZ1pSGGwhSoZn3CFgyLQcBWbePAK0_5J4NHUGw/edit#slide=id.g22dc74ad918_0_740[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Planning and Schedule]
> // * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DOxSd5hpwNntypX5DUd3JRmP8wIJL_RVxOJfDo0Nxck/edit#slide=id.g13028f60288_0_0[Secure Development - Introduction to SSML]
> // * link:https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/users/auth/geo/sign_in[Closed link]
> // * link:https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/PRODSEC/Secure+Development+training[Secure Development Training]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This looks messy and might confuse the next writer. Keep your docs tidy

Author: Whole issues removed

> This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part provides new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliances (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]
```

Author: changed

> This is a collection of new features for OCP (OpenShift Container Platform) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]
```

> // 

Author: removed

> // This does not look like a feature. Is this a resolved issue?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

> .Delete PV when the provider is deleted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.PV can is now automatically deleted when the provider is deleted
```
Correct me if I messed up the technical meaning :-D

Author: changed

> Connections to remote OpenShift clusters can be secures with CA certificates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections to remote OpenShift clusters can be secured with CA certificates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]
```

> Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC deletes automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Open Virtual Appliances (OVA) provider has an attached PV and PVC. With this update, the PVC is automatically deleted when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]
```

PV and PVC must be defined since on their first occurrence in the text.

Author: changed

> // Is this a feature or Resolved issue?
> // .. Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically
> // 
> // Source network and source storage anre not seleted automatically when creating an OCP to OCP plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

> .End-to-end test for import OVA
> 
> The {project-short} process performs an end to end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.End-to-end test for imported OVA is now available

With this update, the {project-short} process performs an end to end test of the imported Open Virtual Appliance (OVA). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]
```

Author: changed

> .Create OVA provider under all projects
> 
> The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The OVA provider can now be created under all projects

With this update, the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]
```

Author: changed title

> .Migrate from an OVA provider to a restricted project
> 
> Migration from OVA provider to a restricted project succeeds past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer 2: Generally, it feels like this release note misses some details..Is it possible to make the title more new-feature-like and also add some details to the description? 

```suggestion
.Migrate from an OVA provider to a restricted project

With this update, migration from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider to a restricted project now succeeds past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]
```

Author: Added 'now'

> .OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files
> 
> The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including those that have been deleted. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.OVA inventory watcher now detects deleted files

With this update, the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) inventory watcher detects changes in files, including the deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]
```

Author: changed

..MTV-773

..MTV-724

..MTV-766

..MTV-768

..MTV-770

..MTV-772

..MTV-775

..MTV-779

..MTV-792

..MTV-793

..MTV-797

..MTV-867

.OVA Provider

OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

..MTV-759

..MTV-848

..MTV-624

..MTV-681

..MTV-680

..MTV-689

..MTV-733

..MTV-669

..MTV-715

..MTV-714

..MTV-696

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

.Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

> Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs, and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]
```

Use the Oxford comma

.Unclear error status message for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during conversion

vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and OpenStack do not fail, but the encryption key may be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Migration fails during precopy/cutover while a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM

> Warm migration from {rhv-short} fails if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

Reviewer: In line 192 you have used plurals, in line 197 you have used singular
Pick a format and stick with it
```suggestion
Warm migrations from {rhv-short} fail if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]
```

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type hostPath

> When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, it might happen that a VM cannot be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

Reviewer: `it might happen`

```suggestion
When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, a VM might not  be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.
```

.Non-supported guest operating systems in warm migrations

> Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support all types of guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. This is a consequence of using RHEL 8 in the former case and RHEL 9 in the latter case. +

Reviewer: This could be re-written

See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

> When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

When adding an OVA provider, a `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appears, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671([MTV671])

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678([MTV-678])

.OCP to OCP migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

> When migrating from OCP to OCP, the source provider cluster must be 4.13 or newer. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809([MTV-809])

Reviewer: Could be written better
```suggestion
When migrating from OCP to OCP, the version of the source provider cluster must be OCP version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809([MTV-809])
```

.Restricted OVA provider namespace 

> You can only create an OVA provider under Forklift/MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681([MTV-681])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift/MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681([MTV-681])
```

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680([MTV-680])

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689([MTV-689])

.Migration with multiple disks fails

When migrating an OVA VM with more than one disk, the migration gets stuck in the allocate disk phase. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-676([MTV-676])

.Hyper-V Enlightenments are not added to the converted Windows VMs

> Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to OpenShift Vitualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significan performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791([MTV-791])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to OpenShift Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791([MTV-791])
```

Typos

Author: fixed

.Operator fails on timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook

> The operator fails when it calls `forklift-api.openshift-mtv.svc:443/provider-validate?timeout=10s`. Changing the webhooks timeout to 30s seems to avoid this error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718([MTV-718])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is adivsed to change the webhooks timeout to 30s resolves this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718([MTV-718])
```

> .Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power state when source VM is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running
```

A VM migrated from OpenStack does not start automatically when the source VM is running. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-677([MTV-677])

.MTV-701

.MTV-704

.MTV-725

.MTV-835

.MTV-868

.MTV-852

.MTV-740

.MTV-829

.MTV-702

> // 
> // .Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
> // 
> // Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. link:([MTV-796])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Standalone UI

The old UI of MTV 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

.Improved errors logged in populator pods

In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

.The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

.Full support for migration from OVA moves

{project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA moves.

.OpenShift Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

> Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built for a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built as a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]
```

.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during conversion

vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and OpenStack do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Migration fails during precopy/cutover while a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM

Warm migrations from {rhv-short} fail if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type hostPath

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Non-supported guest operating systems in warm migrations

> Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation. 
```
Look at the preview and see how the `+` is rendered

> See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

Reviewer: Do you mean to list to an article or is the MTV docs you can link to?

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

> When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

Reviewer: This is badly written
```suggestion
When migrating VMs with RHEL 9 installed as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]
```

Reviewer 2: Also, we should define VMs like "virtual machines (VMs)" like in all the previous cases. Also, there's one fix, so there's my full suggestion:

"When migrating virtual machines (VMs) with Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 installed as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of these VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization."

> .Import OVA: ConnectionTestFailed message appears when adding OVA provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Import an OVA: A ConnectionTestFailed message appears when adding an OVA provider
```

Reviewer 2: Hmm....the title is kind of strange with the "Import an OVA:" part. Is it possible to rewrite it without the colon?

> When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider is created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the `ova server pod creation` has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider has been created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the provider has not been created successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
```

> .Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Leftover `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.
```

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the namespace of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929([MTV-929])

> .Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC
```

> The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928([MTV-928])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928([MTV-928])
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

> .Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Adding an OVA provider raises an `ConnectionTestFailed` error message
```

When adding an OVA provider, a `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appears, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671([MTV671])

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678([MTV-678])

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be OCP version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809([MTV-809])

.Restricted OVA provider namespace 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift/MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681([MTV-681])

> .Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Only OVA files scanned in the NFS share root folder
```

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680([MTV-680])

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails

> Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689([MTV-689])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails at the `Convert image to kubevirt` step, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689([MTV-689])
```

.Migration with multiple disks fails

When migrating an OVA VM with more than one disk, the migration gets stuck in the allocate disk phase. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-676([MTV-676])

.Hyper-V Enlightenments are not added to the converted Windows VMs

> Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to OpenShift Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791([MTV-791])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the Enlightenments after converting to OpenShift Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791([MTV-791])
```

> .Operator fails on timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Operator can timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook
```

> The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is advised to change the webhooks timeout to 30s resolves this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718([MTV-718])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is advised to change the webhooks' timeout to 30 seconds to resolve this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718([MTV-718])
```

> .Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when a source VM is running
```

> .Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when the source VM is running
```

A VM migrated from OpenStack does not start automatically when the source VM is running. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-677([MTV-677])

.MTV-701

.MTV-704

.MTV-725

.MTV-835

.MTV-868

.MTV-852

.MTV-740

.MTV-829

> .MTV-702

Reviewer: What are these?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

// {project-short} {project-z-version} is a maintenance release. There are no technical changes.

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

> In this version of {project-short}, migration using OpenStack source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this version of {project-short}, migration using {osp} source providers moves from a Technology Preview feature to being a fully supported feature.
```

.Integration of the create and update provider user interface

> The user interface of the source providers and destination providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays current data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user interface of the source providers and destination providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console, and displays the current data.
```

.Standalone UI

The old UI of MTV 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

.Improved errors logged in populator pods

In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

.The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

> .Full support for migration from OVA moves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Full support for migration from OVA
```

Author: removed word

> {project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA moves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA.
```
Requires more details, without more details `moves` makes no sense

Author: removed word

.OpenShift Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built for a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Scan OVA files in the root folder of an NFS share

Migration scans the files directly to the NFS share folder, not to a separate folder. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This release has the following features and improvements:

.Cross-Provider Features

This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]

..Replace templates with flavors

> Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on OpenShift. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[MTV-206]

Reviewer: See line 35. you are duplicating information

> ..Replace templates with flavors
> 
> Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on OpenShift. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[MTV-206]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
..Replace templates with flavors

Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[MTV-206]
```

Please use attributes where possible

..Integrate volume populators in remote migrations

> Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and OpenStack, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote OCP clusters. link::https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[MTV-721]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and {osp}, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote OCP clusters. link::https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[MTV-721]
```
Please use attributes where possible

> Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and OpenStack, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote OCP clusters. link::https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[MTV-721]

Reviewer: what do you mean `el9`

// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CnIq-MHgEoq_1QgaFU5uoOfZ7ZOnNzxPk9OdDUe4Me8/edit#slide=id.g1a5a54f838a_0_1509[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Introduction]
// * Link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19H3tSzZ1pSGGwhSoZn3CFgyLQcBWbePAK0_5J4NHUGw/edit#slide=id.g22dc74ad918_0_740[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Planning and Schedule]
// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DOxSd5hpwNntypX5DUd3JRmP8wIJL_RVxOJfDo0Nxck/edit#slide=id.g13028f60288_0_0[Secure Development - Introduction to SSML]
// * link:https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/users/auth/geo/sign_in[Closed link]
// * link:https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/PRODSEC/Secure+Development+training[Secure Development Training]

.OCP Provider

This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]
// 
// .. Block Migrations from OpenShift versions before 4.13
// 
// This does not look like a feature. Is this a resolved issue?

.. Secure connections to remote OpenShift clusters

> Connections to remote OpenShift clusters can be secured with CA certificates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters can be secured with CA certificates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]
```

// Is this a feature or Resolved issue?
// .. Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically
// 
// Source network and source storage anre not seleted automatically when creating an OCP to OCP plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729] 

.Console Plugin

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} Console plugin. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-736[(MTV-736)]

..MTV-615

..MTV-737

..MTV-245

..MTV-365

..MTV-449

..MTV-616

..MTV-773

..MTV-724

..MTV-766

..MTV-768

..MTV-770

..MTV-772

..MTV-775

..MTV-779

..MTV-792

..MTV-793

..MTV-797

..MTV-867

.OVA Provider

OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

..MTV-759

..MTV-848

..MTV-624

..MTV-681

..MTV-680

..MTV-689

..MTV-733

..MTV-669

..MTV-715

..MTV-714

..MTV-696

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

.Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

> Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs, and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs, and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it, so you can clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]
```

.Unclear error status message for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during conversion

> vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and OpenStack do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and {osp} do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.
```

Could be written in a better way

Reviewer 2: Now I'm thinking about the `vSphere only:` part..... Shall this be mentioned in the release note's title instead? 

Also, as I mentioned above, if there's no workaround for that, I'd recommend saying it explicitly.

Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to OpenShift Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791([MTV-791])

.Operator fails on timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook

The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is advised to change the webhooks timeout to 30s resolves this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718([MTV-718])

.Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running

A VM migrated from OpenStack does not start automatically when the source VM is running. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-677([MTV-677])

.Provider with application credential or user token authentication type remains in `staging` status

When migrating a VM with an application credential or user token authentication type, the migration gets stuck in the `staging` status, without continuing and finishing in the `Ready` status. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-701([MTV-701])

> .Forklift-controller crashes when creating a plan for a VM with 2 NICs

Reviewer: What do you mean by NIC

* network interface card (NIC)
* network interface controller (NIC)

When creating an {ocp} to {ocp} migration plan for a VM with 2 NICs, it creates a plan of `Unknown` status, causing the `forklift-controller` to fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-704([MTV-704])

.Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers

> When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show where the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725([MTV-725])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725([MTV-725])
```

.Conversion pod does not use the transfer network

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835([MTV-835])

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

> When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. The order for creating a host secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. The procedure for creating a host secret is as follows:
```

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868([MTV-868])

.Migrating VMs from RHV to OpenShift Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

> Migrating a VM from RHV to OpenShift Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-console-plugin/issues/852([MTV-852])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating a VM from RHV to OpenShift Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The error is caused because the pod sees a smaller file. link:https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-console-plugin/issues/852([MTV-852])
```

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from wrong URL

The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` process produces a `True` result even when the wrong URL is entered. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740([MTV-740])

.MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of VM disk in RHV

The extended volume of a VM disk does not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it is already connected. The connected RHV provider does not update the volume of the VM disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829([MTV-829])

.`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from MTV 2.4.2 to MTV 2.5.0

After upgrading MTV from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returns a `Failure` status and an error message. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702([MTV-702])
// 
// .Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
// 
// Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. link:([MTV-796])

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

> When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubvirt` stage is 'running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963([MTV-963])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails, and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubvirt` stage is 'running` but has not finished successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963([MTV-963])
```

You are confusing verb tenses. 
You need to ensure your writing meets basic grammar

> .Fail to migrate image-based VM from OSP to `default` namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Fail to migrate image-based VM from {osp} to `default` namespace
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

// {project-short} {project-z-version} is a maintenance release. There are no technical changes.

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

In this version of {project-short}, migration using OpenStack source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

.Integration of the create and update provider user interface

The user interface of the source providers and destination providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays current data.

.Standalone UI

> The old UI of MTV 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old UI of {project-short} 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.
```

Author: changed through document

.Improved errors logged in populator pods

In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

> .The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace {ocp-name} templates
```

Author: corrected

> The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces {ocp-name} templates. MTV currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.
```

Author: corrected

.Full support for migration from OVA moves

{project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA moves.

> .OpenShift Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.{ocp-name} Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards
```

Author: corrected

Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built for a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Scan OVA files in the root folder of an NFS share

Migration scans the files directly to the NFS share folder, not to a separate folder. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This release has the following features and improvements:

.Cross-Provider Features

This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]

..Replace templates with flavors

> Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on OpenShift. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[MTV-206]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[MTV-206]
```

Author: corrected

// * link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QMrM5ac2sbecmy7lYHA8S6p8L8ivVwHlgdcspy-Z4VE/edit#heading=h.66y4kqbj468a[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Implementation Plan]
// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CnIq-MHgEoq_1QgaFU5uoOfZ7ZOnNzxPk9OdDUe4Me8/edit#slide=id.g1a5a54f838a_0_1509[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Introduction]
// * Link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19H3tSzZ1pSGGwhSoZn3CFgyLQcBWbePAK0_5J4NHUGw/edit#slide=id.g22dc74ad918_0_740[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Planning and Schedule]
// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DOxSd5hpwNntypX5DUd3JRmP8wIJL_RVxOJfDo0Nxck/edit#slide=id.g13028f60288_0_0[Secure Development - Introduction to SSML]
// * link:https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/users/auth/geo/sign_in[Closed link]
// * link:https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/PRODSEC/Secure+Development+training[Secure Development Training]

.OCP Provider

This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]
// 
// .. Block Migrations from OpenShift versions before 4.13
// 
// This does not look like a feature. Is this a resolved issue?

> .. Secure connections to remote OpenShift clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters
```

Author: changed throughout document

.Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the namespace of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

> When adding an OVA provider, a `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appears, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV671)]

Reviewer: Please look at the [resolved issues in the previous release notes for MTV 2.5](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/2.5/html/release_notes/rn-2.5_release-notes#resolved-issues-25_release-notes)

You will note nearly every item has something like `This issue has been resolved in MTV 2.5.2. It is advised to update to this version of MTV or later. ` or `In {project-short} releases 2.4.0-2.5.3, cold migrations from vSphere to the local cluster on which {project-short} was deployed did not take a specified transfer network into account. This issue is resolved in  {project-short} 2.5.4.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-846[(MTV-846)]` 

You have to follow the pattern. The way you are writing the resolved will not work as you are omitting the version it is resolved in and the affected versions. 

A resolved issues section in release notes should help a user understand what issues have been resolved in which release. Your resolved issues fail to do this, which is a problem

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]

> == Technical changes

Reviewer 3: @HagayVider1 @anarnold97 we also need to document that must-gather logs cannot be downloaded from the UI anymore (so it needs to be done through the CLI), see [internal conversion about that with @yaacov ](https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C049WBVTRD2/p1712561122500229?thread_ts=1712507636.418859&cid=C049WBVTRD2)

Reviewer 4: Ref: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946?focusedId=24491851&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-24491851

Author: See lines 45-4t at end of Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Improved migration plan in the console

The user interface console has improved the process of creating a migration plan.

.`instance type` and `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates

> The `instance type` and `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.
```

The `instance type` are work in progress, expected for MTV 2.7.

Author: Fixed

.Full support for migration from OVA

{project-short} supports migration from OVA.

.Integration of the `Create` and `Edit` migration plans

The user interface `Create` and `Edit` elements for migration plans now align with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data. These elements now replace Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.VM posted with `Running` state

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. This single `Ronning` operation replaces two previous operations, `Create/Post VM` and Run VM`.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.Can download `must-gather` logs only using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs from the Must Gather operator. Every `mist-gather` log image download must be preformed using CLI commands. See link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator] for more information.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This release has the following features and improvements:

> // .Integrate volume populators in remote migrations
> 
> // Arik, please check and explain - `el9` > "Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9"?
> // Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and OpenStack, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[(MTV-721)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

//.Default virt storage class
// change to virtual? Moved to 2.7.0
// 
// For requests that do not specify an explicit storage class, the `is-default-virt-class` replaces the Kubernetes default storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-855[(MTV-855)]

// Moved to 2.7.0
//.Validate permissions on source providers
// 
//When migrating a VM with an Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization (RHEV) user with restricted permissions, {project-short} validates the user permissions and the migration pod reports where the process fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]

.Validation for RHEL 6

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system, and therefore RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. A validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

// .Custom mapping of instance type preferences
// 
// {project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that are configured for specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

> // [id="cross-provider-features-26_{context}"]
> === Cross-Provider Features
> // 
> // This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]
> // 
> .{ocp} Provider
> // any more information?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]

.Block migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13

The `Export API` in {ocp-name} Virtualization exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13, so source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

> // Pushed to 2.7
> // .Secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters
> // 
> // CA certificates can be specified when creating {ocp} providers. The certificate is used to validate the connection to the {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

> // [id="cross-provider-features-26_{context}"]
> === Cross-Provider Features
> // 
> // This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]
> // 
> .{ocp} Provider
> // any more information?
> 
> This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]
> 
> .Block migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13
> 
> The `Export API` in {ocp-name} Virtualization exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13, so source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]
> 
> // Pushed to 2.7
> // .Secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters
> // 
> // CA certificates can be specified when creating {ocp} providers. The certificate is used to validate the connection to the {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]
> 
> .Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically
> 
> Source network and source storage are not selected automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let us just get rid of this section as the changes are too small to highlight

Author: removed

> [id="console-plugin-26_{context}"]
> === Console Plugin
> 
> This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} Console plugin. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-736[(MTV-736)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

.Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality

The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. It was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> .A *Tooltip* has been added to explain the *Select migration network* button
> 
> A tooltip was added to the `select migration network` button, which explains the purpose of this network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

.{ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls

The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

> .The Cancel icon during the Cutover stage has been removed
> 
> In a warm migration, the Cancel icon appears during the Precopy stage but does not appear during the Cutover stage. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

.{project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> .Improved cell renderers in the list of provider VMs
> 
> The table listing providers and their VMs has been remapped and improved to show the relevant fields for each provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

> .Date filter
> 
> Lists of CRS can be filtered by different criteria, including creation date. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-724[(MTV-724)]
> 
> .Improved explanations in providers form
> 
> The `providers` form runs a validation to verify the text entered in every field is correct and relevant for that field. A `hot to fix` explanation appears when incorrect or badly formatted text is entered in each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

> .Create provider form includes an information hint
> 
> Fields in the `create provider` form include hint icons to explain the required information for each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

.Migration success status bar chart 

A bar chart shows the number of migrations and their status - `starts`, `finished`, and `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

.Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

> .Automated kubevirt types
> 
> The process of generating `kubevirt` types has been automated. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

.Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs

Plans that have failed to migrate any VMs can be edited. Some plans fail or are canceled because the network and storage mappings are wrong. These plans can be edited until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> .Specify the ESXi provider
> 
> An ESXi can be imported directly from vSphere without going through vCenter. In the provider screen, the user can enter a URL that points to vCenter or to a specific ESX. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

.ESXi provider host configuration

ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

> .Link to the VM details page
> 
> The {ocp-name} Console, provider VM list includes a link to the details page for each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-797[(MTV-797)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

> .Host secrets labels include a mandatory `createdForRsources` label
> 
> The `createdForResources` label is mandatory, enabling the setting network for Host machine creation of Host objects. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-867[(MTV-867)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== OVA Provider

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Delete PV when the provider is deleted

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC deletes automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

.End-to-end test for import OVA

The {project-short} process performs an end to end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

.Create OVA provider under all projects

The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

> .Scan files directly in share directory and down two sub-levels
> 
> {project-short} scans files directly in the share directory and down two sub-levels. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove

Author: removed

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including those that have been deleted. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

.VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]

> == Known issues

Reviewer 3: there's another known issue to add about migration of VMs with images from OpenStack to block storage, see last comments in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644

Author: Add lines 270-272

See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

.Import OVA: ConnectionTestFailed message appears when adding OVA provider

When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider is created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the `ova server pod creation` has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

> .Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

Reviewer 2: @HagayVider1 let me know when you rewrite this note as a resolved issue, and I can review it :-)

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the namespace of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

> .Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

Reviewer 2: @HagayVider1 let me know when you rewrite this note as a resolved issue, and I can review it :-)

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

// Has this been resolved?
.Possible data loss when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> In previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0 [(MTV-447)]

Reviewer 3: 1. need to fix the link ([MTV-447](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447))
2. "but not of the running VM", no?
3. we can now say that it only happened when running a cold migration to a remote OpenShift cluster

.Conversion pod does not use the transfer network

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. The procedure for creating a host secret is as follows:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-console-plugin/issues/852[(MTV-852)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from wrong URL

> The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` process produces a `True` result even when the wrong URL is entered. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

Author: Lines 353-355

.MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of VM disk in RHV

The extended volume of a VM disk does not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it is already connected. The connected RHV provider does not update the volume of the VM disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]

.`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0

After upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returns a `Failure` status and an error message. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]

.Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
 

> Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796([MTV-796])

Author: Added resolved statement

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

> Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

Reviewer 3: this part seems to go back to MTV 2.4 where we had only vSphere, RHV and OpenStack as source providers - we should rather that section from the release notes of 2.5 that include also OVA and OpenShift

Author: changed

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

> .Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

Reviewer 3: this item should drop (OpenStack is a fully supported feature in MTV 2.5)

Author: removed

In this version of {project-short}, migration using {osp} source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

> .Integration of the create and update provider user interface

Reviewer 3: same here (it was introduced in MTv 2.5) and instead we should say that the creation of migration plan was improved in the console

Author: changed

The user interface of the source providers and destination providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays the current data.

> .Standalone UI

Reviewer 3: this should drop

Author: removed

The old UI of {project-short} 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

> .Improved errors logged in populator pods

Reviewer 3: this also needs to drop

Author: removed

In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made gathering logs from the failed pods difficult. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status, and its logs can then be easily gathered by `must-gather` and by `forklift-controller`, to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

> .The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace {ocp-name} templates

Reviewer 3: there's a bit of confusion here - we never added flavors since they were replaced with instance type and instance type preferences
in MTV 2.6 the migrated VMs are based on instance type preferences as a first priority and, as you mention below, we fall back to OpenShift ttemplates when a relevant preference is not available.
cc @liranr23

Reviewer 5: yup. there is no flavor. we use `VirtualMachineInstancetype` (namespaced, user created) and if we don't find it, we try `VirtualMachineClusterInstancetype` (cluster-wide, usually CNV created, but user with permissions can create this kind as well).

Author: changed text

The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

.Full support for migration from OVA

> {project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA.

Reviewer 3: wouldn't {project-version} change when we introduce 2.6.1? in that case, we should hard-code 2.6

Author: removed version number

> .{ocp-name} Console `Create` and `Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

Reviewer 3: this is too general - part of it was covered in MTV 2.5 (the 'provider' dialogs by `.Integration of the create and update provider user interface` that appears above)
here we apply the same approach for migration plans
cc @yaacov

Author: changed

Forms and Wizards that use `@migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built as a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the {ocp-name} Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

> .Scan OVA files in the root folder of an NFS share

Reviewer 3: that was done in 2.5.1, see https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-697

Author: removed

Migration scans the files directly to the NFS share folder, not to a separate folder. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This release has the following features and improvements:

> .Replace templates with flavors

Reviewer 3: that's not really a feature but more of a technical change - and it was already mentioned above

Author: removed

KubeVirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` Containerized Data Importers(CDIs). Flavors are meant to replace the Templates, which are only available on {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[(MTV-206,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-919[MTV-919)]

> .Integrate volume populators in remote migrations

Reviewer 3: this wouldn't land in 2.6

Author: Commented out. Can be added in future versions.

// Arik, please check and explain - `el9` > "Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9"?
Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and OpenStack, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[(MTV-721)]

> .VM posted with `Running` state

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure whether it is worth including it, but if we do then it should be a technical change (the VM is posted with its desired `Running` state and this way we reduce two operations, create/post VM and run VM, to a single operation

Author: changed and moved to technical changes

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

> .Review and configure migrated VMs

Reviewer 3: I didn't realize which change this refers to but looking at MTV-843, it can be documented as a technical change (the migrated VMs are set with a label `app: <vmname>` to ease further changes for them in OpenShift Virtualization)

Author: moved to technical changes, lines 49-51

The {project-short} web console shows the name and migration status of each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

.Default virt storage class
// change to virtual?

> For requests that do not specify an explicit storage class, the `is-default-virt-class` replaces the Kubernetes default storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-855[(MTV-855)]

Reviewer 3: as far as I remember it was pushed out to 2.7 (also in Jira), @yaacov did you ask to include this in the release notes of 2.6?

Author: Ticked shows fix version 2.7.
Commented out this section

> .Validate permissions on source providers

Reviewer 3: pushed out to 2.7

Author: commented out

When migrating a VM with an Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization (RHEV) user with restricted permissions, {project-short} validates the user permissions and the migration pod reports where the process fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]

.Validation for RHEL 6

> Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support CNV to provide RHEL 6 Templates. This restriction is no longer relevant because `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs have replaced the templates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system and therefore RHEL 6 is not supported as a guest operating system in OpenShift Virtualization. A validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]
```
it's not really a feature.. maybe a technical change?

Author: changed

> .Custom mapping of instance type preferences

Author: merged with `instance type ` and `instance type preferences`

{project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that are configured for specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

> .RH-SDL

Reviewer 3: this item should not be documented, added `no-doc` label to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-801

Author: removed

// Do we have public links to these documents?

// Additional RH-SDL resources:

// * link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QMrM5ac2sbecmy7lYHA8S6p8L8ivVwHlgdcspy-Z4VE/edit#heading=h.66y4kqbj468a[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Implementation Plan]

// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CnIq-MHgEoq_1QgaFU5uoOfZ7ZOnNzxPk9OdDUe4Me8/edit#slide=id.g1a5a54f838a_0_1509[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Introduction]

// * Link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19H3tSzZ1pSGGwhSoZn3CFgyLQcBWbePAK0_5J4NHUGw/edit#slide=id.g22dc74ad918_0_740[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Planning and Schedule]

// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DOxSd5hpwNntypX5DUd3JRmP8wIJL_RVxOJfDo0Nxck/edit#slide=id.g13028f60288_0_0[Secure Development - Introduction to SSML]

// * link:https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/users/auth/geo/sign_in[Closed link]

// * link:https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/PRODSEC/Secure+Development+training[Secure Development Training]

[id="cross-provider-features-26_{context}"]

> === Cross-Provider Features

Author: Commented heading out from document.
Will delete when ready to merge.

This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]

> .{ocp} Provider

Author: This appears as heading 3, a subsection under Technical changes.
commented out for now

// any more information?

This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]

.Block migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13

> VM manifestations were introduced in {ocp-name} 4.13, so source provider clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

Author: changed

.Secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters

> CA certificates can secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]

Author: changed

> .Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically

Author: commented out

> Source network and source storage are not selected automatically when creating a {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source network and source storage are not selected automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]
```

[id="console-plugin-26_{context}"]
=== Console Plugin

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} Console plugin. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-736[(MTV-736)]

> .Replaced Forms and Wizards with the {ocp-name} Console Create and Edit pages

Author: removed

The Create and Edit pages in the {ocp-name} Console have replaced the Forms and Wizards that ran on the migtool library UI application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality

> The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. It was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

Reviewer 3: in other words, I'd suggest to change the title to `Automatic retrieval of CA certificate for the provider's URL in the console` and then say that we restore the this functionality that existed for vSphere in previous versions, and also added it to RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers

.A *Tooltip* has been added to explain the *Select migration network* button

A tooltip was added to the `select migration network` button, which explains the purpose of this network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]

.{ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls

The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

.The Cancel icon during the Cutover stage has been removed

> In a warm migration, the Cancel icon appears during the Precopy stage, but does not appear during the Cutover stage. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a warm migration, the Cancel icon appears during the Precopy stage but does not appear during the Cutover stage. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]
```

.Improved cell renderers in the list of provider VMs

The table listing providers and their VMs has been remapped and improved to show the relevant fields for each provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]

.Date filter

Lists of CRS can be filtered by different criteria, including creation date. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-724[(MTV-724)]

.Improved explanations in providers form

The `providers` form runs a validation to verify the text entered in every field is correct and relevant for that field. A `hot to fix` explanation appears when incorrect or badly formatted text is entered in each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]

.Create provider form includes an information hint

Fields in the `create provider` form include hint icons to explain the required information for each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]

.Migration success status bar chart 

A bar chart shows the number of migrations and their status - `starts`, `finished`, and `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

> .Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

Reviewer 2: Let me know if you decide to keep it, and I'll peer-review this note as well :-)

> .Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

Reviewer 3: I still see no reason to include this one

The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

.Automated kubevirt types

The process of generating `kubevirt` types has been automated. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]

.Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs

Plans that have failed to migrate any VMs can be edited. Some plans fail or are canceled because the network and storage mappings are wrong. These plans can be edited until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

.Specify the ESXi provider

An ESXi can be imported directly from vSphere without going through vCenter. In the provider screen, the user can enter a URL that points to vCenter or to a specific ESX. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

.ESXi provider host configuration

ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

> .Link to VM details page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Link to the VM details page
```

The {ocp-name} Console, provider VM list includes a link to the details page for each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-797[(MTV-797)]

.Host secrets labels include a mandatory `createdForRsources` label

The `createdForResources` label is mandatory, enabling the setting network for Host machine creation of Host objects. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-867[(MTV-867)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== OVA Provider

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

> .Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

Reviewer 2: @HagayVider1, let me know when you rewrite the text as per Arik's comment, and I'll provide my review :-)

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

> .Delete PV when provider is deleted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Delete PV when the provider is deleted
```

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC deletes automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

> .End to end test for import OVA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.End-to-end test for import OVA
```

The {project-short} process performs an end to end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

> .Create OVA provider under all namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create OVA provider under all projects
```

Author: replaced all  'namespace' with 'project'

> The OVA provider can be created under all namespaces, not only under the forklift or MTV namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]
```

Author: replaced

.Scan files directly in share directory and down two sub-levels

{project-short} scans files directly in the share directory and down two sub-levels. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

> .Migrate from OVA provider to a restricted namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migrate from an OVA provider to a restricted project
```

> Migration from OVA provider to a restricted namespace succeeds past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace succeeds past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]
```

Author: replaced

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

> OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including that have been deleted. The information from the `ova-provider-server` is updated and sent every five minutes, and is then handled by the forklift inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including that have been deleted. The information from the `ova-provider-server` is updated and sent every five minutes, and is then handled by the forklift inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]
```

> .Migration from OVA validation rules

Reviewer 2: @HagayVider1, just suggesting some peer-review changes to Arik's initial suggestion :-) Please, correct me if I messed technical details up :-) Also, when you add more details to the description, let me know, and I'll review these as well.

> .Validation rules are now available for OVA
> 
> The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

> VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts or running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, or running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]
```

.VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

Migrating a VM using VDDK 7 enables finding the boot disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-969[(MTV-696)]

> For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

Reviewer 2: Here, it seems like the "Resolved issues" sentence belongs to the release note above, which, as I understand, describes some Known Issue.

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

> .Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources
```

.Unclear error status message for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during conversion

vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and OpenStack do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Migration fails during precopy and cutover while a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM

Warm migrations from {rhv-short} fail if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

> .Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type hostPath

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Unable to schedule a migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type hostPath
```

> When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of the type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.
```

.Non-supported guest operating systems in warm migrations

Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation. +
See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

> .Import OVA: ConnectionTestFailed message appears when adding OVA provider

Reviewer 2: @HagayVider1 let me know when you rewrite this note as a resolved issue, and I can review it :-)

When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider is created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the `ova server pod creation` has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

> An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the namespace of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]
```

Author: replaced

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

> The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

// Has this been resolved?
.Possible data loss when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> When migrating a VMware VM that has a snapshot, the VM that is created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contains the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. [(MTV-447)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating a VMware VM that has a snapshot, the VM that is created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contains the data in the snapshot but not in the running VM that was migrated. [(MTV-447)]
```

Author: corrected

.Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

When adding an OVA provider, a `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appears, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Restricted OVA provider namespace 

Author: corrected

> You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]
```

Author: corrected

> You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

Author: corrected

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

> .Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails
```

Author: replaced

> Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted namespace fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]
```

Author: words replaced

.Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers

When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725[(MTV-725)]

.Conversion pod does not use the transfer network

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. The procedure for creating a host secret is as follows:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

> Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-console-plugin/issues/852[(MTV-852)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-852[(MTV-852)]
```

Author: fixed

> .RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from wrong URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL
```

Author: fixed

The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` process produces a `True` result even when the wrong URL is entered. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> .MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of VM disk in RHV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of the VM disk in RHV
```

Author: fixed

.VM posted with `Running` state

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.Review and configure migrated VMs

The {project-short} web console shows the name and migration status of each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

.Default virt storage class

For requests that do not specify an explicit storage class, the `is-default-virt-class` replaces the Kubernetes default storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-855[(MTV-855)]

.Validate permissions on source providers

When migrating a VM with an RHEV user with restricted permissions, {project-short} validates user permissions and the migration pod reports where the process fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]

.Validation for RHEL 6

Enterprise Linux 9 does not support CNV to provide RHEL 6 templates. This restriction is no longer relevant because `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replaced template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Custom mapping of instance type preferences

> {project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that configured to specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

Reviewer: Incorrect preposition.
```suggestion
{project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that configured for specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]
```

Author: corrected

> // 
> // .CNV InstanceTypes [MTV-919]
> // This looks like it repeats MTV-206 above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

.RH-SDL

> {project-short} conforms with the Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle (RH-SDL) that allows users to follow an implementation plan that adopts security controls during the product lifecycle. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-801[(MTV-801)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{project-short} conforms with the Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle (RH-SDL) that allows users to follow an implementation plan, which adopts security controls during the product lifecycle. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-801[(MTV-801)]
```

your senstence structure is bad: `... that ... that... `

Author: @ahadas 
See links below to Red hat internal articles.
Do we have these articles in publicly available sites?

// .. Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically
// 
// Source network and source storage anre not seleted automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

.Console Plugin

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} Console plugin. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-736[(MTV-736)]

See descriptions for the following features that are included under Cross-Provider Features:
* Replaced Forms and Wizards with {ocp-name} Console Create and Edit pages link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]
* Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]
* Tooltip explains the select migration network button link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]
* {ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]
* Removed Cancel icon during Cutover stage link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]
* {project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API fetch methods link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> * Improved cell renderers in list of provider VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved cell renderers in the list of provider VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]
```

* Date filter link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-724[(MTV-724)]
* Improved explanations in providers form link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]

> * Create provider form includes information hint link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create provider form includes an information hint link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]
```

Author: corrected

* Migration success status bar chart link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]
* Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

> * Automated kubevit types link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automated KubeVirt types link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]
```

Author: corrected

Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> * Specify ESX provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Specify ESXi provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]
```

Author: corrected

> * Specify ESX provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Specify the ESX provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]
```

Author: corrected

* ESXi provider host configuration link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]
* Link to VM details page link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-797[(MTV-797)]

> * Host secrets labels include mandatory `createForRsources` label link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-867[(MTV-867)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Host secrets labels include a mandatory `createForRsources` label link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-867[(MTV-867)]
```

Author: corrected

.Replaced Forms and Wizards with {ocp-name} Console Create and Edit pages

The Create and Edit pages in the {ocp-name} Console have replaced the Forms and Wizards that ran on the migtool library UI application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality

The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. It was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.Tooltip explains the select migration network button

A tooltip was added to the `select migration network` button, which explains the purpose of this network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]

.{ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls

The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

> .Removed Cancel icon during Cutover stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Removed Cancel icon during the Cutover stage
```

In a warm migration, the Cancel icon appears during the Precopy stage, but does not appear during the Cutover stage. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]

.{project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API fetch methods

The UI plugin uses a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API when using the `fetch` method. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Improved cell renderers in list of provider VMs

The table listing providers and their VMs has been remapped and improved to show the relevant fields for each provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]

.Date filter

Lists of CRS can be filtered by different criteria, including creation date. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-724[(MTV-724)]

.Improved explanations in providers form

> The `providers` form runs a validation to verify the text entered in each field is correct and relevant for that field. A `hot to fix` explanation appears when incorrect or badly formatted text is entered in each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `providers` form runs a validation to verify the text entered in every field is correct and relevant for that field. A `hot to fix` explanation appears when incorrect or badly formatted text is entered in the field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]
```

Author: corrected

.Create provider form includes information hint

Fields in the `create provider` form include hint icons to explain the required information for each field. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]

.Migration success status bar chart 

A bar chart shows the number of migrations and their status - `startes`, `finished`, and `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

.Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

.Automated kubevit types

The process of generating `kubevit` types has been automated. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]

.Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs

Plans that have failed to migrate any VMs can be edited. Some plans fail or are canceled because the network and storage mappings are wrong. These plans can be edited until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> .Specify ESX provider

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift-documentation/assets/106804821/b677b70c-3fbf-4a07-8923-977bc88067c3)

Author: corrected

An ESX can be imported directly from vSphere without going through vCenter. In the provider screen, the user can enter a URL that points to vCenter or to a specific ESX. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

.ESXi provider host configuration

> ESXi as a vSphere provider does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESXi as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. The credentials requirements field is removed from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]
```

Author: corrected

.Link to VM details page

> The {ocp-name} Console, provider VM list includes a link to the details page for each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-797[(MTV-797)]

Reviewer: Is it the details page or the Details page?

Author: @ahadas 
Does the provider VM appear in the UI?
What does the page or look look like?

> .Host secrets labels include mandatory `createForRsources` label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Host secrets labels include mandatory `createdForResource` label
```
Typo and you name the label incorrectly

Author: corrected

> The `createForResources` label is mandatory, enabling the setting network for Host machine creation of Host objects [(MTV-867)]

Reviewer: Missing link

Author: corrected
added link

.OVA Provider

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} OVA provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]
* Get firmware detection by virt-v2v link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]
* Delete PV when provider is deleted link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

> * End to end test for import OVA link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* End-to-end test for import OVA link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]
```

Author: corrected

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from wrong URL

The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` process produces a `True` result even when the wrong URL is entered. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of VM disk in RHV

The extended volume of a VM disk does not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it is already connected. The connected RHV provider does not update the volume of the VM disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]

.`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0

After upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returns a `Failure` status and an error message. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]
// 
// .Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
// 
// Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. link:([MTV-796])

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

> When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubvirt` stage is 'running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]
```

Author: corrected

> .Fail to migrate image-based VM from {osp} to `default` namespace

Author: @ahadas 
I can do a global search and replace 'namespace' > 'project' and 'namespaces' > projects'

> The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` namespace. The migration does not have a `RunAsUser` and `FSGroup`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]

Reviewer 3: I think the `The migration does not have a RunAsUser and FSGroup` part is too technical and not informative enough for users, how about something like:
```suggestion
The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` namespace. The conversion of a virtual machine snapshot as part of the migration runs with non-root privileges and OpenShift does not automatically pick non-root user for a pod that starts on the `default` namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]
```
@bennyz what do you think?

Author: @ahadas 
Changed according to your comment.
Also changed 'namespace' to project.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

In this version of {project-short}, migration using {osp} source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

.Integration of the create and update provider user interface

The user interface of the source providers and destination providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays the current data.

.Standalone UI

The old UI of {project-short} 2.3 cannot run by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

.Improved errors logged in populator pods

> In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. {project-short} 2.5.3 has a maximum number of three restarts of populator pods. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status, and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]
```

Author: corrected

.The `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace {ocp-name} templates

The Virtual Machine Flavor API replaces {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

.Full support for migration from OVA

{project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA.

.{ocp-name} Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

Forms and Wizards that use `@migtools/lib-ui` do not function as expected when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built as a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the {ocp-name} Console replace the Forms and Wizards. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Scan OVA files in the root folder of an NFS share

Migration scans the files directly to the NFS share folder, not to a separate folder. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

> This release has the following features and improvements:

Reviewer: I do not understand why you are linking to Jira tickets for new features

Would links to documentation not be better? Reader looks at the brief overview of the new feature and then clicks on to the docs for the new feature.

Also read Richard's tickets and borrow text from those docs to fill out this section.

Furthermore, you are looking at this section as if it will only be used for 2.6.0... what happens if Arik wants to include a great new feature in MTV 2.61... how will the reader know this feature is for 2.6.1 and which other features were earlier.

This section does not read particularly well. Ask Richard and Arik for their top five to ten new features, add these. Then add links to the docs (use hard links.... as the links will not change for the 2.6 version too much especially if you go to the top level of the doc. 

@ahadas and @RichardHoch - please can I ask for your input on the New Features and ask for a list of five to ten new features that will really grab the attention of the user? 

@HagayVider1 - do not do a single line for these big new features, write a short paragrapgh. Richard's docs tend to have good introductions on the benefits, which will allow you to almost copy and paste.    

Document these features using a standard introductory text, such as "In MTV 2.6.0, you can ...." 

@ahadas and @RichardHoch - WDYT - worth it? 

Once you have these top level features, move this section to a `Level 3 ===` heading and call it like **2.6.0 new features summary**

Reviewer: But what happens you release 2.6.1.

As we group release notes on the Y not Z release, i think it might be better to be safe than sorry

Reviewer 6: @anarnold97 My 2 cents -- MTV does a pretty good job of introducing features only in the y-stream releases, that is the y.0 releases, so I'd be fine with omitting the .0 in 2.6.0 for this section. For known and resolved issues, specifying the z-stream is necessary. On the other hand, not all projects in the MMS/OADP universe follow the "no new features in z-stream" rule, so I can see using  z-stream numbers across the board in the new features section of MMS/OADP release notes.

.Cross-Provider Features

This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]

See descriptions for the following features that are included under Cross-Provider Features:

* Replace templates with flavors link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[(MTV-206,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-919[MTV-919)]

* Validate permissions on source providers link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]

* Validation for RHEL 6 link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV-413)]

* Integrate volume populators in remote migrations link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[(MTV-721)]

* Custom mapping of instance type preferences link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

* VM posted with `Running` state link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

* Review and configure migrated VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

* Default virt storage class link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-855[(MTV-855)]

.Replace templates with flavors

> Kubevirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` CDIs. Flavors are meant to replace Template, which is only available on {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[(MTV-206,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-919[MTV-919)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubeVirt API introduces `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` and `VirtualMachineFlavor` Containerized Data Importers (CDIs). Flavors are meant to replace Template, which are only available on {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[(MTV-206,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-919[MTV-919)]
```

Author: corrected

.Integrate volume populators in remote migrations

// Arik, please check and explain
Integrate volume populator for `oVirt` and OpenStack, together with `virt-v2v` on `el9` into a CDI to migrate remote {ocp-name} clusters. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[(MTV-721)]

.VM posted with `Running` state

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.Review and configure migrated VMs

The {project-short} web console shows the name and migration status of each VM. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

.Default virt storage class

For requests that do not specify an explicit storage class, the `is-default-virt-class` replaces the Kubernetes default storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-855[(MTV-855)]

.Validate permissions on source providers

> When migrating a VM with an RHEV user with restricted permissions, {project-short} validates user permissions and the migration pod reports where the process fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]

Author: Corrected
Added "Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization (RHEV)"
No "rhev" value in attributes file

> .Validation for RHEL 6

Reviewer: * RHEL - check for an attributes

Author: No RHEL attribute for MTV

Reviewer: So should you create one?

> Enterprise Linux 9 does not support CNV to provide RHEL 6 templates. This restriction is no longer relevant because `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replaced template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)  9 does not support CNV to provide RHEL 6 templates. This restriction is no longer relevant because `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replaced template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]
```

Reviewer: Templates might need a capital, and should be purla

Author: corrected

.Custom mapping of instance type preferences

> {project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that configured for specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{project-short} enables users to add Customer Virtual Machine Mapping, which are custom templates that are configured for specific migrations, VMs, and users. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]
```

Author: corrected

// * Link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19H3tSzZ1pSGGwhSoZn3CFgyLQcBWbePAK0_5J4NHUGw/edit#slide=id.g22dc74ad918_0_740[Red Hat Secure Development Lifecycle Planning and Schedule]
// * link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DOxSd5hpwNntypX5DUd3JRmP8wIJL_RVxOJfDo0Nxck/edit#slide=id.g13028f60288_0_0[Secure Development - Introduction to SSML]
// * link:https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/users/auth/geo/sign_in[Closed link]
// * link:https://docs.engineering.redhat.com/display/PRODSEC/Secure+Development+training[Secure Development Training]

.{ocp} Provider

This is a collection of new features for {ocp-name} (OCP) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-739[(MTV-739)]

.Block migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13

VM manifestations were introduced in {ocp-name} 4.13, so source provider clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Secure connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters

Connections to remote {ocp-name} clusters can be secured with CA certificates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[MTV-728]

.Source and storage endpoints are not selected automatically

> Source network and source storage are not seleted automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

Reviewer: **TYPO**

```suggestion
Source network and source storage are not selected automatically when creating an {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]
```

Author: corrected

.Console Plugin

This is a collection of new features for the {project-short} Console plugin. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-736[(MTV-736)]

> See descriptions for the following features that are included under Cross-Provider Features:

Author: Corrected

> * Replaced Forms and Wizards with {ocp-name} Console Create and Edit pages link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

Author: corrected

* Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> * Tooltip explains the select migration network button link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A *Tooltip* has been added to explain the *Select migration network* button link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]
```
Check the name of the button

Author: corrected

* {ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

> * Removed the Cancel icon during the Cutover stage link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *Cancel* icon during the Cutover stage has been removed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]
```

Author: corrected

> * {project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API fetch methods link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API fetch methods link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]
```
* `fetch` methods
* Check whether method is plural or singular

Author: corrected
Checking with Arik

* Improved cell renderers in the list of provider VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-773[(MTV-773)]

* Date filter link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-724[(MTV-724)]

* Improved explanations in providers form link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-766[(MTV-766)]

* Create provider form includes an information hint link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-768[(MTV-768)]

* Migration success status bar chart link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

* Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

* Automated kubevirt types link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-775[(MTV-775)]

* Edit plans that failed to migrate VMs link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

* Specify the ESXi provider link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-792[(MTV-792)]

* ESXi provider host configuration link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

> * Link to VM details page link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-797[(MTV-797)]

Reviewer: check capitlization of *details* page

Author: Checking with Arik

The Create and Edit pages in the {ocp-name} Console have replaced the Forms and Wizards that ran on the migtool library UI application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

.Restored vSphere Verify certificate functionality

The vSphere Verify certificate option in the `add-provider` dialog has been restored. It was removed in the transition to {ocp} console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.Tooltip explains the select migration network button

A tooltip was added to the `select migration network` button, which explains the purpose of this network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-245[(MTV-245)]

.{ocp-name} Console native SDK fetch, post, and delete calls

The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

.Removed the Cancel icon during the Cutover stage

In a warm migration, the Cancel icon appears during the Precopy stage, but does not appear during the Cutover stage. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-449[(MTV-449)]

.{project-short} UI plugin uses only a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API fetch methods

> The UI plugin uses a dynamic plugin for SDK REST API when using the `fetch` method. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI plugin uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` method. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]
```

Author: corrected

* Scan files directly in share directory and down two sub-levels link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680)]

* Migrate from OVA provider to a restricted namespace link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

* OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

* Migration from OVA validation rules link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Delete PV when provider is deleted

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC deletes automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

.End to end test for import OVA

The {project-short} process performs an end to end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

> .Create OVA provider under all namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create OVA provider under all projects
```

Author: changed

> The OVA provider can be created under all namespaces, not only under the forklift or MTV namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV namespace. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]
```

Author: changed

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including that have been deleted. The information from the `ova-provider-server` is updated and sent every five minutes, and is then handled by the forklift inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts or running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

.VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

Migrating a VM using VDDK 7 enables finding the boot disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-969[(MTV-696)]

> For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This filter for **resolved issues**  is in the wrong place. 

See line 360 for start of the **Resolved Issues**

Author: removed

.Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the namespace of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

// Has this been resolved?
.Possible data loss when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> When migrating a VMware VM that has a snapshot, the VM that is created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contains the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. [(MTV-447)]

Reviewer: Follow the standard formatting of resolved issues:

```suggestion
In previous versions of MTV, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in MTV 2.6.0. [(MTV-447)]
```

Author: corrected

Author: corrected

.Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

> When adding an OVA provider, a `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appears, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Reviewer: In previous versions of MTV ...  This has been resolved in MTV 2.6.0.

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider namespace 

> You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV namespace, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the forklift-controller SA. This should be extended to all namespaces.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]
```

Author: changed

The extended volume of a VM disk does not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it is already connected. The connected RHV provider does not update the volume of the VM disk. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]

.`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0

After upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returns a `Failure` status and an error message. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]

.Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
 
Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796([MTV-796])

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

> .Fail to migrate image-based VM from {osp} to `default` namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Fail to migrate image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

In this version of {project-short}, migration using OpenStack source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

.Disabling FIPS

EMS enforcement is disabled for migrations with VMware vSphere source providers to enable migrations from versions of vSphere that are supported by {project-short} but do not comply with the 2023 FIPS requirements.

> 

Reviewer 6: @HagayVider1 FIPS is not disabled; enforcement of it is. Please change the headline accordingly.  Is this new for 2.6? It's in the 2.5 documentation https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/2.5/html-single/installing_and_using_the_migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/index#migrating-vms-web-console

Has something changed. I have not read all the release but this caught my eye as I was looking for the source of the next item.

Author: Removed

.Integration of the create and update provider user interface

The user interface of the create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.

.Standalone UI

The old UI of MTV 2.3 cannot be enabled by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

.Errors logged in populator pods are improved

In previous releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. In {project-short} 2.5.3, the number of restarts of populator pods is limited to three times. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status, and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

.`VirtualMachineClusterFlavor`and `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

> Virtual Machine Flavor API will replace OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Virtual Machine Flavor API will replace OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.
```

Reviewer: You have removed this corrections. Why?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

> Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full} or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.
```

> Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere or {rhv-full} or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full} or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.
```

Reviewer: You have removed this correction. Why?

Author: Changed text to Red Hat standards according to Vale

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

> // {project-short} {project-z-version} is a maintenance release. There are no technical changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This release has the following technical changes:

.Migration from OpenStack moves to being a fully supported feature

In this version of {project-short}, migration using OpenStack source providers graduated from a Technology Preview feature to a fully supported feature.

.Disabling FIPS

EMS enforcement is disabled for migrations with VMware vSphere source providers to enable migrations from versions of vSphere that are supported by {project-short} but do not comply with the 2023 FIPS requirements.

.Integration of the create and update provider user interface

> The user interface of create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user interface of the create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.
```

> The user interface of the create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user interface of the create and update providers now aligns with the look and feel of the {ocp} web console and displays up-to-date data.
```

@RichardHoch - please can I check how are the providers called in the UI?

Reviewer 6: @anarnold97 @HagayVider1 They are called source providers and destination providers.

Author: corrected

Reviewer: You have removed this correction. Why?

.Standalone UI

The old UI of MTV 2.3 cannot be enabled by setting `feature_ui: true` in ForkliftController anymore.

.Errors logged in populator pods are improved

> In previous releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. In {project-short} 2.5.3, the number of restarts of populator pods is limited to three times. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous releases of {project-short} {project-version}, populator pods were always restarted on failure. This made it difficult to gather the logs from the failed pods. In {project-short} 2.5.3, the number of restarts of populator pods is limited to three times. On the third and final time, the populator pod remains in the fail status, and its logs can then be easily gathered by must-gather and by forklift-controller to know this step has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-818[(MTV-818)]
```

Reviewer: You have removed this correction. Why?

Author: I changed the text according to Vale recommendations for Red Hat standards.

.`VirtualMachineClusterFlavor`and `VirtualMachineClusterFlavor` CRDs replace OpenShift templates

> Virtual Machine Flavor API will replace OpenShift templates. MTV currently fall back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual Machine Flavor API will replace OpenShift templates. MTV currently falls back to using OpenShift templates when a relevant preference is not available.
```

.Full support for migration from OVA moves

{project-short} {project-version} supports migration from OVA moves.

.OpenShift Console `Create/Edit` pages replace Forms and Wizards

> Forms and Wizards that use @migtools/lib-ui` have not worked properly when running inside the plugin. The migtool library was built fo a standalone application. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace them. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forms and Wizards that use `migtools/lib-ui` have not worked properly when running inside the plugin. The `migtool` library was built for standalone applications. The `Create` and `Edit` pages in the OpenShift Console replace them. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-615[(MTV-615)]
```

Reviewer: You have removed this correction. Why?

.Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

.Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources. 

* Importer pods
* Conversion pods
* Config maps
* Secrets
* Failed VMs
* Data volumes. 

To clean up the the temporary resources, you must archive a migration plan before deleting it. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

.Unclear error status message appears for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

> .Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during a conversion (vSphere only)

Reviewer 5: @ahadas is `static ips not preserved` also an issue?

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of type hostPath

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of the type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. 

To enable migrating a VM with multiple disks, use a shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems

Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation. 
See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

> When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When migrating virtual machines (VMs) with Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 installed as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of these VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]
```

.Leftover `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes the plan to stop in the `CopyDisks` phase

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

> .Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 
> 
> When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migration of a VM with NVME disks from vSphere fails

When migrating a virtual machine (VM) with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails, and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]
```

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. to create a host secret, follow these steps:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the secret owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider has been created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the provider has not been created successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
```

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

> VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

Reviewer: .Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

> VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).
```

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of the type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. 

To enable migrating a VM with multiple disks, use a shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems

Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation. 
See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system might start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating virtual machines (VMs) with Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 installed as a guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of these VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

> .Import OVA: ConnectionTestFailed message appears when adding OVA provider
> 
> When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider has been created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the provider has not been created successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

> .VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8
> 
> When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

> .Migration from OVA validation rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

> .Get firmware detection by virt-v2v
> 
> A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

.VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

> For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Forklift-controller crashes when creating a plan for a VM with 2 NICs
> 
> // What is NIC?
> When creating a {ocp} to {ocp} migration plan for a VM with 2 NICs, it creates a plan with an `Unknown` status. This status causes the `forklift-controller` to fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-704[(MTV-704)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails
> 
> Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder
> 
> Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Restricted OVA provider project 
> 
> You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Restricted OVA provider project 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

.Forklift-controller crashes when creating a plan for a VM with 2 NICs

// What is NIC?
When creating a {ocp} to {ocp} migration plan for a VM with 2 NICs, it creates a plan with an `Unknown` status. This status causes the `forklift-controller` to fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-704[(MTV-704)]

> .Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers
> 
> When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725[(MTV-725)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

> .The OVA provider can now be created under all projects
> 
> The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider project 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

> .Provider with application credential or user token authentication type remains in `staging` status
> 
> When migrating a VM with an application credential or user token authentication type, the migration gets stuck in the `staging` status, without continuing and finishing in the `Ready` status. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-701[(MTV-701)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider project 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

> .Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running
> 
> A VM migrated from OpenStack does not start automatically when the source VM is running. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-677[(MTV-677)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider project 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

> .Hyper-V Enlightenments are not added to the converted Windows VMs
> 
> Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to {ocp-name} Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791[(MTV-791)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

.Hyper-V Enlightenments are not added to the converted Windows VMs

Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to {ocp-name} Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791[(MTV-791)]

> .Operator fails on timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook
> 
> The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is advised to change the webhooks timeout to 30 seconds resolves this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718[(MTV-718)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider project 

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

> .Migration with multiple disks fails
> 
> When migrating an OVA VM with more than one disk, the migration gets stuck in the allocate disk phase. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-676[(MTV-676)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is no available

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

> The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

> .Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV
> 
> Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC is deleted automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]
== Known issues

This release has the following known issues:

.Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources. 

* Importer pods
* Conversion pods
* Config maps
* Secrets
* Failed VMs
* Data volumes. 

To clean up the the temporary resources, you must archive a migration plan before deleting it. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

.Unclear error status message appears for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

> .Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during a conversion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during a conversion (vSphere only)
```

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

.Import image-based VMs can fail

Migrating an image-based VM without the `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-644)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC is deleted automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

```

The `virtual machine preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Custom mappings of guest operating system type to virtual machine preference can be configured using `config` maps. This is in order to use custom virtual machine preferences, or to support more guest operating system types.

.Full support for migration from OVA

{project-short} migration from OVA is now a fully supported feature, and no longer Technical Preview.

.The VM is posted with its desired `Running` state

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. This single `Running` operation replaces two previous operations, `Create/Post VM` and Run VM`.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. for more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.Migrated VMs can now be reviewed and configured

> The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization.
 the console displayed those details also before this change. the only difference here is that the VM is set with the `app: <vmname>` labels that makes it easier to make further configurations related to the VM on the target cluster
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]
```

.Provider with application credential or user token authentication type remains in `staging` status

When migrating a VM with an application credential or user token authentication type, the migration gets stuck in the `staging` status, without continuing and finishing in the `Ready` status. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-701[(MTV-701)]

.Forklift-controller crashes when creating a plan for a VM with 2 NICs

// What is NIC?
When creating a {ocp} to {ocp} migration plan for a VM with 2 NICs, it creates a plan with an `Unknown` status. This status causes the `forklift-controller` to fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-704[(MTV-704)]

.Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers

When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725[(MTV-725)]

> .Conversion pod does not use the transfer network
> 
> When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> .Removed credentials from ESXi provider host configuration
> 
> ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. This update removed the credentials requirements field from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC is deleted automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

.The OVA provider can now be created under all projects

The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

> .Migrate from an OVA provider to a restricted project
> 
> Migration from OVA provider to a restricted project can now succeed past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Removed credentials from ESXi provider host configuration

ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. This update removed the credentials requirements field from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC is deleted automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

> .End-to-end test for imported OVA
> 
> The {project-short} process now performs an end-to-end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers

When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725[(MTV-725)]

.Conversion pod does not use the transfer network

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. to create a host secret, follow these steps:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

> .Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD
> 
> Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-852[(MTV-852)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. to create a host secret, follow these steps:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-852[(MTV-852)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> .MTV Inventory now shows extended volume of the VM disk in RHV
> 
> The extended volume of a VM disk did not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it was already connected. The connected RHV provider did not update the volume of the VM disk. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Improved migration plan in the console

The user interface console has improved the process of creating a migration plan.

> .`instance type` and `instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
.`instance type preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates
```

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including those that have been deleted. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

.VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

When migrating from a source provider that uses VDDK (VMware Virtual Disk Development Kit) version 8, the migration completes successfully, but the converted guest cannot boot. The guest cannot find the boot disk. 

For a complete list of all resolved issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430274[Resolved Issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-26_{context}"]

> == Known issues

Reviewer 2: Generally, there's one issue that I see for each of the release notes in this section. We usually document a workaround for the known issue, if there's any, of course. But if there's none, I'd recommend saying it explicitly. Our users like details. Something like "Currently, there is no workaround available."

WDYT?

Author: Sent workaround query to Arik

> This release has the following known issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part provides known issues present in {project-full} 2.6.
```

Author: Kept the same wording as earlier versions

.Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources

> Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs, and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it, so you can clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

Reviewer 2: Are there any other temporary resources than those mentioned here? If not, I'd recommend making a bulleted list out of them for better readability :-) WDYT?

```suggestion
Deleting a migration plan does not remove the following temporary resources:

* Importer pods
* Conversion pods
* Config maps
* Secrets
* Failed virtual machines (VMs)
* Data volumes

To be able to clean up temporary resources, archive the migration plan before deleting it. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]
```

> .Unclear error status message for VM with no operating system
> 
> The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

Reviewer 2: Please, correct me if I made some "technical" mistakes. Also, are there any consequences that we could mention? Like how exactly this issue could bother the user.

```suggestion
.Unclear error status message is displayed for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a virtual machine (VM) with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason of the VM failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]
```

> .Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during conversion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during a conversion
```

vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and OpenStack do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Migration fails during precopy and cutover while a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM

Warm migrations from {rhv-short} fail if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

> .Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of type hostPath
> 
> When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of the type `hostPath`, a VM might not be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Unable to schedule a migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of the `hostPath` type 

When migrating a virtual machine (VM) with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of the `hostPath` type, the VM might not be scheduled. 

To work around this issue, use a shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.
```

> .Non-supported guest operating systems in warm migrations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems
```

When adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` can instantly appear, although the provider is created successfully. If the message does not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status does not move to `Ready`, this means that the `ova server pod creation` has failed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Left over `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes plan to stop indefinitely in `CopyDisks` phase.

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

> When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

Author: not changed

> .Import image-based VMs
> 
> Migrating an image-based VM without a `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-644)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Import image-based VMs might fail

Migrating an image-based virtual machine (VM) without the `virtual_size` field might fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-644)]
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

> This release has the following resolved issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This part provides issues resolved in {project-full} 2.6.
```

Author: kept the same text as previous versions

// Has this been resolved?

> .Possible data loss when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots
> 
> In previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. [(MTV-447)]

Reviewer 2: Since this is already a fix, the title should express it.

```suggestion
.Data loss is no longer possible when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware virtual machine (VM) that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. With this update, the issue has been fixed. [(MTV-447)]
```

> .Adding an OVA provider raises a `ConnectionTestFailed` error message
> 
> In previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, showing the error message `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed`, although it eventually creates the provider. The message disappears after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider,  the `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message was displayed, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. With this update, the issue has been fixed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
```

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

> When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

Reviewer 2: This one is documented as a Known Issue. Shall this be moved to the Known issues section or the text must be just rewritten as the Resolved issue?

Reviewer 3: yeah, this needs to be documented as a resolved issue

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

.Restricted OVA provider project 

> You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

Reviewer 2: The text, from my POV, implies that this is a Known issue, although it's documented as a Resolved issue. Can we modify the text somehow so that it's more clear?

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

> Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. As a result, you can place the files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted Open Virtual Appliance (OVA). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]
```

Author: not changed

.Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

> Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

Reviewer 2: Isn't that a Known issue?

// What is NIC?
When creating a {ocp} to {ocp} migration plan for a VM with 2 NICs, it creates a plan with an `Unknown` status. This status causes the `forklift-controller` to fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-704[(MTV-704)]

.Difficult to capture errors logged in populator pods from customers

When `ovirt-img` fails to download the image, the reason for the failure does not appear in the populator controller or any events log. The pod keeps restarting after each failure, so customer populator pod error logs can only show the reason for failure if they happen to log exactly when the pod is in an error state. link:(https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-725[(MTV-725)]

.Conversion pod does not use the transfer network

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. The procedure for creating a host secret is as follows:

. Create a secret
. Create a host

> . Update the host owner reference

Author: Changed

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-852[(MTV-852)]

> .RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL
> 
> The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition is set to `True` even when the URL is is different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

Reviewer 2: The title should be somehow rewritten to express that this is a Resolved issue. Any great idea? :-)
```suggestion
.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

Previously, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. With this update, the issue has been fixed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]
```

Author: Kept sentence structure as previous versions

> .MTV Inventory does not show extended volume of the VM disk in RHV
> 
> The extended volume of a VM disk does not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it is already connected. The connected RHV provider does not update the volume of the VM disk. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]

Reviewer 2: Correct me if I made some technical mistakes.

```suggestion
.MTV Inventory now shows extended volume of the VM disk in RHV

Previously, the extended volume of a VM disk did not appear in the MTV Inventory for an RHV provider after it was already connected. As a result, the connected RHV provider did not update the volume of the VM disk. With this update, the issue has been fixed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-829[(MTV-829)]
```

> .`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0
> 
> After upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returns a `Failure` status and an error message. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.`ForkliftController` status no longer shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0

Previously, after upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returned the `Failure` status and an error message. With this update, the issue has been fixed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]
```

Can we also say what `ForkliftController` is? If you use "the" before it, we should say what it is, a utility/function/option/etc.

Author: Changed

> .Migration fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
>  
> Migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeds when it is directly under the `/vcenter`, but fails when it is stores inside a folder. The migration raises an error. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Migration no longer fails when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder
 
Previously, migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeded when it was directly under the `/vcenter`, but failed when it was stored inside a folder. Consequently, the migration raised an error. With this update, the issue has been fixed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]
```
Can we also say what `/vcenter` is? A directory/path/etc....

Author: changed

.Fail to migrate image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project

> The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. The conversion of a virtual machine snapshot as part of the migration runs with non-root privileges, and {name-ocp} does not automatically pick a non-root user for the pod that starts on the `default` project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]

Reviewer 2: This is documented as a Resolved issue, but the text implies that this is a Known issue. Could you please try to rewrite it in the manner of the fix?

Author: Changed description

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> .Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider
> 
> The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> .Migration success status bar chart 
> 
> With this update, a migration success status bar chart the number of migrations and displays their status - `starts`, `finished`, or `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is no available

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> .{ocp-name} Console SDK `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls are now available
> 
> The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{project-short} migration from OVA is now a fully supported feature, and no longer Technical Preview.

.The VM `Running` state is displayed during the migration

{project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. This single `Running` operation replaces two previous operations, `Create/Post VM` and Run VM`.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download every `must-gather` log image by using CLI commands. for more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.Migrated VMs can now be reviewed and configured

The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

> .Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is no available

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is now available
```
maybe we should also phrase it differently if we present this as a feature, e.g., "Warn when migrating VMs with RHEL 6 guest operating system"

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

> .Source and storage endpoints are now not selected automatically

Reviewer 3: this should drop (it's targeted to 2.7)

> .Source and storage endpoints are now not selected automatically
> 
> Source network and source storage are now not selected automatically when creating a {ocp} to {ocp} plan. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-729[MTV729]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

> The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restortes. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to {ocp} console, and has now been added to the console. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

Reviewer 3: we can also say that this functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now

> .{ocp-name} Console SDK `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls are now available

Reviewer 3: we should drop this, it's a technical thing that happens behind the scenes (I don't even think it is worth noting it in the technical changes)

The `fetch`, `post`, and `delete` calls in the Forklift UI are now native to the {ocp-name} API. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-365[(MTV-365)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> .Migration success status bar chart 

Reviewer 3: can be dropped

With this update, a migration success status bar chart the number of migrations and displays their status - `starts`, `finished`, or `failed`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-770[(MTV-770)]

.Improved list of VMs in the detailed view of each provider

The detailed view of each provider includes specific information relevant to the VMs of that provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-772[(MTV-772)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> .Removed credentials from ESXi provider host configuration

Reviewer 3: that's not a change that is worth mentioning on its own, it's part of adding ESXi as the SDK endpoint of a vSphere provider

ESXi, as a vSphere provider, does not need credentials in its setup. This update removed the credentials requirements field from ESX settings. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-793[(MTV-793)]

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Get firmware detection by virt-v2v

A `virt-v2v` that converts a guest also produces an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. `forklift-controller` processes the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

> .Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

Reviewer 3: this should move to the resolved issues section

Each OVA provider has an attached PV and PVC. The PVC is deleted automatically when the provider is deleted. {project-short} now also deletes the PV when the provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

> .End-to-end test for imported OVA

Reviewer 3: should be dropped

The {project-short} process now performs an end-to-end test of the imported OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-624[(MTV-624)]

> .The OVA provider can now be created under all projects

Reviewer 3: this should drop

The OVA provider can be created under all projects, not only under the forklift or MTV project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-715[MTV-715)]

> .Migrate from an OVA provider to a restricted project

Reviewer 3: this should drop

Migration from OVA provider to a restricted project can now succeed past the `kubevirt` step. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

.OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Migration from OVA validation rules

VM migrations from OVA are validated according to vSphere. The migration can use a similar structure and inventory variable names as vSphere, of which the OVA model is a subset. The rules do not apply to clusters, hosts, the running state of the VMs, or any configuration that is not relevant for the OVA VMs. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]

> .VM cannot find the bootable disk when source VMware provider uses VDDK 8

Reviewer 3: which issue does this item refer to?

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build/create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

.Fail to migrate a VM with NVME disks from vSphere 

When migrating a VM with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

.Import image-based VMs can fail

Migrating an image-based VM without the `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-644)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira. 

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Data loss is no longer possible when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. [(MTV-447)]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

When a user cancels and deletes a failed migration plan after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC are not deleted. You must delete the pods and PVC manually. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

When migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster must be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Restricted OVA provider project 

Reviewer 3: should drop

You can only create an OVA provider under the Forklift or MTV project, for use by the `forklift-controller` SA. This is extended to all projects.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-681[(MTV-681)]

.Can only scan OVA files in NFS share root folder

Only the files placed under the NFS share root folder can be scanned. The fix allows placing files directly on the share and two sublevels from the root folder of the extracted OVA. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-680[(MTV-680,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-696[MTV-696)]

> .Migration from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails

Reviewer 3: should drop (already fixed in an earlier version)

Migrating from an OVA provider to a restricted project fails at the step `Convert image to kubevirt`, raising an error. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-689[(MTV-689)]

.Migration with multiple disks fails

When migrating an OVA VM with more than one disk, the migration gets stuck in the allocate disk phase. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-676[(MTV-676)]

.Hyper-V Enlightenments are not added to the converted Windows VMs

Source RHV VM with Hyper-V Enlightenments fails to convert the enlightenments after converting to {ocp-name} Virtualization. When converting RHV VMs to Windows VMs, the Hyper-V Enlightenments do not convert, causing significant performance issues. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-791[(MTV-791)]

.Operator fails on timeout when calling `provider-validate` webhook

The operator can fail when it calls `provider-validate`. It is advised to change the webhooks timeout to 30 seconds resolves this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-718[(MTV-718)]

> .Migrated VM from OpenStack has different power states when source VM is running

Reviewer 3: should drop

When creating a migration plan using the `transferNetwork`, the `virt-v2v` pod uses the default pod network instead of the transfer network. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-835[(MTV-835)]

.Creating a host secret requires validating the secret before creating the host

When creating a host secret, you must validate the secret before creating the host. to create a host secret, follow these steps:

. Create a secret
. Create a host
. Update the host owner reference

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.Migrating VMs from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization does not work with an encrypted RBD

Migrating a VM from RHV to {ocp-name} Virtualization fails during `qemu-img create`, returning a `Cannot grow device files` error. The pod sees a smaller file. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-852[(MTV-852)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

The `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> .MTV Inventory now shows extended volume of the VM disk in RHV

Reviewer 3: should drop

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

Migrate virtual machines (VMs) from VMware vSphere, {rhv-full}, or {osp} to {virt} with {the-lc} {project-first}.

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, and known issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]

> == Technical changes

Author: Redesigned migration plan: done
virtual machine preferences replaced templates: done
VM Running state: done

Dropping the fingerprint: there is a section on "vSphere Verify certificate functionality has been restored" in new features. Is this the issue?

This release has the following features and improvements:

Cross-Provider Features

This is a collection of new features that provide functionality across different cloud providers. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-802[(MTV-802)]

See descriptions for the following features that are included under Cross-Provider Features:
* Replace templates with flavors link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-206[(MTV-206,] link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-919[MTV-919)]
* Validate permissions on source providers link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-273[(MTV-273)]
* Validation for RHEL 6 link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV-413)]
* Integrate volume populators in remote migrations link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-721[(MTV-721)]

> * Cutom mapping of instance type preferences link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-453[(MTV-453)]

Author: corrected

.Migration fails during precopy/cutover while a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM

Warm migrations from {rhv-short} fail if a snapshot operation is performed on the source VM. If a user performs a snapshot operation on the source VM at the time when a migration snapshot is scheduled, the migration fails instead of waiting for the user’s snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type hostPath

> When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, a VM migh not be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

Reviewer: Spell check your work
